This page is currently being worked on.  Please check back later.
Camping - Grand Canyon National Park (U.S. National Park Service)
website belongs to an official government
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
All campgrounds within the park are booked well in advance.
Campground reservations can be made up to 6 months in advance.
Note: National Park Service campgrounds in the park
Large campground without hookups. Open all year. Laundry & Showers. Centrally located. Free shuttle bus service.
RV Campground with full hookups. Open All Year. Centrally located. Free shuttle bus service
Open April 11 through October 18, 2026. No hookups. 23 miles (37 km) east of Grand Canyon Village. Reservations are Required.
National Forest Campground. Open May 15, through Sep. 30, 2026. No hookups. 9 miles (14 km) south of Village. Reservations Recommended.
North Rim Campground has reopened as of June 1. Water and RV hookups are not available.
National Forest Campground - No Hookups. 7 miles (11 km) north of the park boundary. Open May 15, through Sep 17.
The mile-deep Colorado River creates a barrier that splits the park into north and south Rims. In this illustration, the North Rim is shown in yellow and the South Rim is shown in blue.
A 277 mile long (446 km) canyon separates the park into South and North Rims. The Grand Canyon of the Colorado River is a mile-deep, (1.6 km) and creates a barrier that bisects the park. Even though the average distance across the canyon is only 10 miles/ 16 km, be aware that it is a five-hour drive of 215 miles/ 346 km between the park's South Rim Village and the North Rim Village.
Scenery, climate and vegetation are noticably different between north and south rims because of differences in elevation. It is almost like having two parks in one and it takes time, planning and effort to be able to visit both sides of the Canyon in one trip.
Most People Visit Grand Canyon's South Rim
and is located on the "Arizona" side of the Canyon. The South Rim is close to Interstate 40 and the transportation centers of Williams, Flagstaff and Phoenix, Arizona. The South Rim also has a local airport and rail service.
Since it is easier to get to, the South Rim is very busy, and during the summer season, campgrounds hustle and bustle and are often filled to capacity. Reservations are strongly recommended.
Detailed information about camping on the South Rim (including Desert View)
Along with the closest campgrounds that are outside of the park.
The North Rim is Harder to Get to, and is More Wild and Secluded
On May 15, the North Rim reopened for the season. Visitors should plan ahead and be prepared for a more remote experience this year, with limited services available as the park continues recovery and restoration work. Lodging is not available inside the park.
The 2026 season will focus mainly on day use and limited backcountry access, with some scenic drives, viewpoints, and trails open to visitors. Please keep in mind that potable water will not be available on the North Rim, so be sure to bring plenty of water and food for your visit.
Because of its 8,000 ft/ 2,438 m elevation and likelihood of early snowfall, most visitor services on the North Rim were only available during
Before the Dragon Bravo fire, the lodge and the
campground had been open for the season May 15 through October 15.
Only 10% of park visitors experience the North Rim.
The North Rim is located on the "Utah" side of the Canyon. The nearest towns to the park's North Rim village are Fredonia, Arizona, and Kanab, Utah. There is no airport or rail service to the park; it may only be reached by road.
View from Maricopa Point on the South Rim, along scenic Hermit Road.
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
Backcountry Permit - Grand Canyon National Park (U.S. National Park Service)
website belongs to an official government
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
more information on current conditions...
If you wish to camp anywhere in the park, other than in developed campgrounds on the North Rim or the South Rim, you must obtain a permit from the Backcountry Information Center.
overnight camping outside of Mather Campground, Desert View Campground, and North Rim Campground
overnight camping in all sites at Tuweep Campground
overnight camping anywhere on the North Rim of Grand Canyon National Park between Oct 16 - May 14 (includes ski-camping)
off-river camping by river trip participants
overnight camping with private stock outside of Mather Campground
overnight camping with private stock on the North Rim
packrafting, other than that which occurs under a river permit
A backcountry permit is NOT required for:
day hikes (this includes nighttime "day" hikes)
overnight camping at Mather Campground and Desert View Campground (campground reservations at
overnight camping at North Rim Campground between May 15 - Oct 15 (campground reservations at
overnight camping with private stock at Mather Campground (campground reservations at
March 1 - Nov 30, private stock allowed in sites HA and HB only)
overnight stays at the dormitories or cabins at Phantom Ranch (advanced reservations with Grand Canyon National Park Lodges required)
Backcountry travelers must have their printed permit in their possession while in the backcountry. Once a camp is established, the permit must be attached to a pack, tent, or other equipment in plain view so it can be easily checked by rangers.
Permits are valid only for the trip leader, itinerary, number of people, and dates specified on the permit. Permits for all overnight backcountry use must be obtained prior to starting a hike.
Reservations for overnight tent or RV camping in developed use areas on the canyon rims (Mather, Desert View, North Rim) are not obtained through the Backcountry Information Center. The Backcountry Information Center does not make reservations for river trips, mule trips, Phantom Ranch lodging, or trips into the canyon on the Havasupai Reservation.
To obtain additional information on how to enter the Phantom Ranch lodging lottery, or to check general availability, please contact Xanterra Parks and Resorts at 303-297-2757 or 888-297-2757 (
https://www.grandcanyonlodges.com/lodging/phantom-ranch/
at (928) 448-2180 or (928) 448-2237 or (928) 448-2141 or (928) 448-2121
For a safe and enjoyable hike prepare before you arrive.
for current information on trail conditions and situations affecting the backcountry.
HIKE SMART: Your Essential Guide to Hiking in Grand Canyon video
Hiking Grand Canyon, Prepare for Backpacking video
Hiking the Corridor? Be sure to visit the
Trail Courtesy Practices That Leave No Trace page
Backcountry Rules and Regulations webpage
to review the regulations you are expected to follow if issued a Grand Canyon backcountry permit.
Grand Canyon National Park has moved its overnight backcountry reservation system to Recreation.gov (
https://www.recreation.gov/permits/4675337
). For information on the backcountry reservation lottery and when to apply, read the information below. For Grand Canyon backcountry permits and Recreation.gov FAQs visit
www.nps.gov/grca/planyourvisit/backcountry-permit-questions.htm
Permit holders will be responsible for paying park entrance fees upon arrival.
$10 per permit or lottery application plus a nightly charge of $15 per person for all below rim areas and $4 per person for all above rim areas. The lottery/basic permit charge is non-refundable. The per person or stock animal nightly charge is refundable until 30 days before permit start date.
South Bass Trail and Pasture Wash Trail visitors may be charged an additional fee by the tribe for crossing the Havasupai Indian Reservation.
Backcountry reservations are initially offered via an early access lottery on Recreation.gov. Applicants can apply for the early access lottery online over a two-week period that ends on the 1st of the month and matches the current deadline (e.g., Jan 1 for all May start dates; Feb 1 for all June start dates; March 1 for all July start dates, etc.). Through this lottery, up to 750 applicants will be awarded a date and time when they will be eligible to log in to their Recreation.gov account, check availability, and have an opportunity to reserve an itinerary and pay for their reservation. On the 1st of the subsequent month (e.g., Feb 1 for May start dates) everyone will have immediate access to check availability and reserve any remaining camp space.
Grand Canyon Backcountry Early Access Lottery Schedule
First Lottery Winner time slot at 8am MST
General Access for all Lottery Applicants 8am MST
After Lottery Reservations open to public 8am MST
. Find the "Early Access Lottery" section, and (if a lottery is currently open) select the "Register for Open Lottery" button. You will login to your recreation.gov account. You will need to check a box that says you understand the regulations. Next you click on "Proceed to Cart" to enter your credit card information and pay.
The deadline for early access lottery applications matches the application deadlines. Lottery applications can be submitted through Recreation.gov over a 2-week period that begins on the 16
of the month and ends at 5pm MST on the first of the month, 4-months prior to the desired start month:
Lottery winners can view availability and create a reservation for the lottery month by starting at
, find the "Early Access Period" section, then select the "View Early Access Availability" button. Early access timeslots expire at the end of the month. Availability for all other months is accessed through "Check Availability" (in the "Available Permits" section). See additional instructions at:
www.nps.gov/grca/planyourvisit/detailed_availability.htm
, find the "Available Permits" section, and select the "Check Availability" button. If space is available, create a reservation for start dates within 3 months of the present. See additional instructions at:
www.nps.gov/grca/planyourvisit/detailed_availability.htm
Last-Minute Permit for Corridor Campgrounds
A small, limited number of last-minute permits are available exclusively for visitors at Grand Canyon National Park who wish to camp at Havasupai Gardens
or Cottonwood Campgrounds. These permits are issued in person only, are for one night only, and cannot be purchased more than one day prior to the start of a hike. Last-minute permits are held back to facilitate an overnight backcountry experience and are not intended for a rim-to-rim multi-night trip. Havasupai Gardens Campground last-minute permits are only available between March 1 and November 30. Cottonwood Campground last-minute permits are only available between May 15 and October 31.
During the trans-canyon waterline replacement project, availability of last-minute permits may be extremely limited at times.
Hikers obtaining a permit on the North Rim will have priority access to Cottonwood Campground and will likely not be able to obtain a last-minute permit for Havasupai Gardens* Campground. Hikers obtaining a permit on the South Rim will have priority access to Havasupai Gardens* Campground and will likely not be able to obtain a last-minute permit for Cottonwood Campground. No last-minute space is held for Bright Angel Campground.
Last-minute permits are issued by the Backcountry Information Center
, located inside the park on the South Rim. The South Rim Backcountry Information Center is open daily, year-round. The office is open on holidays and keep the same daily hours, from 8 am to noon and 1-5 pm Mountain Standard Time. The North Rim Backcountry office is currently closed.
Visitors can also check online at Recreation.gov for cancellations that can be booked up to five days in  advance,
https://www.recreation.gov/permits/4675337
*Havasupai Gardens is the NPS Campground formerly known as Indian Garden, accessed from Grand Canyon Village via the Bright Angel Trail. (more info about the name change can be found at
www.nps.gov/grca/learn/news/indian-garden-officially-renamed-to-havasupai-gardens.htm
You can stop by the Backcountry Information Center at any time during open hours and request a waitlist number. This number is valid for the following morning and will be used to determine priority of service. At 8:00 a.m. Backcountry Information Center staff will call waitlist numbers. When your turn comes you can request a permit, exchange your number for a new waitlist number good for the following day, or simply ask questions. You may participate in the waitlist for as many consecutive days as is convenient.
Following is an example showing how the waitlist can be used to secure a lower number for the next day and increase your chances of obtaining your desired permit. This is an example of how the process works in the busy season. Backcountry Information Center staff can give you a much clearer picture of how long the potential wait time will be once you arrive. During the busy season it is rare to get a last-minute permit the same day.
Last-minute permit and waitlist example for South Rim. The same process is applicable to those waiting on the North Rim. The only difference would be the campgrounds and maybe one day shorter wait on the North Rim.
Day 1, Tuesday: You come to the Backcountry Information Center at 11 a.m. and request a permit for Havasupai Gardens
on Wednesday night. No permits are available. You join the waitlist for the next day and are assigned #10.
Day 2, Wednesday: You return at 7:59 a.m. Unfortunately, by the time Backcountry Information Center staff reaches your waitlist number, all Corridor Campground permits have been assigned. You exchange today's waitlist number for tomorrow's waitlist number; you are #2.
Day 3, Thursday: You return at 7:59 a.m. You obtain a permit for Havasupai Gardens* on Friday night, hiking out Saturday morning.
*Havasupai Gardens is the NPS Campground formerly known as Indian Garden, accessed from Grand Canyon Village via the Bright Angel Trail. (more info about the name change can be found at
www.nps.gov/grca/learn/news/indian-garden-officially-renamed-to-havasupai-gardens.htm
The backcountry is divided into "use areas". Each use area has an overnight capacity based upon the size of the area, the number of suitable and available campsites, its ecological sensitivity, its management zoning, and its use history. Use areas range in size from several hundred acres to several thousand acres. Trail and use area information can be found at
www.nps.gov/grca/planyourvisit/campsite-information.htm
Camping in designated campsites or campgrounds is limited to two nights (consecutive or non-consecutive) per campsite or campground per hike. Designated campsites include the Corridor (Havasupai Gardens*, Bright Angel, Cottonwood), Hermit, Hermit Rapids, Monument, Granite Rapids, Cedar Spring, Salt, Horn, Horseshoe Mesa, South Bass Trailhead areas (SE1, SE2, SE3), Cape Final, Point Sublime, Swamp Point, Fire Point, Tapeats, and Deer Creek Use Areas. One exception is made to this rule, during the off-season (November 15 through February 28), and within the Corridor Use Area only, overnight stays up to a total of four nights per campground per trip are allowed.
*Havasupai Gardens is the NPS Campground formerly known as Indian Garden, accessed from Grand Canyon Village via the Bright Angel Trail. (more info about the name change can be found at
www.nps.gov/grca/learn/news/indian-garden-officially-renamed-to-havasupai-gardens.htm
Outside the use areas named above, "at-large" camping is permitted, meaning that camps are not limited to designated sites.
Trips are limited to a maximum of seven nights per use area; however, overall trip lengths are not limited.
More permits are available for small groups (1-6 people) than for large groups (7-11 people). Because there are only a few large group sites, limiting the size of your group will increase your chances of obtaining a permit.
Larger groups tend to cause a disproportionately higher amount of damage to the canyon, largely due to the effects of "social" trailing. For this reason, the park's Backcountry Management Plan does not allow groups larger than eleven people to camp in the same campground or use area.
all permits are void when a group obtains multiple permits for the same campground or use area for the same night
. The alternative for these larger groups is to obtain permits for smaller groups and ensure the itineraries for these permits never bring more than one of the permits into the same campground or use area on the same night. No more than four large groups or eight small groups that are affiliated with each other may camp within the backcountry on the same night.
In addition to following all normal backcountry permit requirements, commercial organizations must obtain a Commercial Use Authorization. Contact the park's Concession Management Office at (928) 638-7707 for further information or visit
Winter use guidelines come into effect after the North Rim receives adequate snowfall to close Highway 67 or on Dec 1st, whichever comes first. Once in effect, winter use guidelines apply until mid-May, when the North Rim reopens for the season.
During the winter season a backcountry permit is required for overnight use of the North Rim from the park's northern boundary to Bright Angel Point on the canyon rim. Winter access is by hiking, snowshoeing, or cross-country skiing only. A permit can be obtained in advance at the Backcountry Information Center.
Permittees are allowed to camp at-large between the park's north boundary and the North Kaibab trailhead but not at the trailhead itself. Between the North Kaibab trailhead and the Bright Angel Point area, camping is permitted only at the North Rim Campground group campsite.
Human waste may not be buried in the snow in areas that will be in view of summer users.
With a valid credit card, last minute permits may sometimes be obtained from the rangers on duty at the Lees Ferry ranger station for a limited number of use areas in their vicinity. However, these rangers have other patrol responsibilities and may not be available to provide assistance. It is recommended that all trips be planned well in advance through the Backcountry Information Center.
Organized Group Rim-to-Rim and Extended Day Hike/Run
Any organized, non-commercial group of 12-30 participants, or not-for-profit group conducting rim-to-rim, rim-to-rim-to-rim, rim-to-river-to-rim, and/or extended day hikes in the inner canyon must obtain a Special Use Permit (SUP). The inner canyon is defined as the area below the Tonto Platform from the South Rim and below Manzanita Resthouse from the North Rim. Groups may not break into smaller groups on different permits to accommodate group size. Commercial operations are not authorized under this SUP. For more information visit
www.nps.gov/grca/learn/management/sup.htm
(from overnight backcountry permits). The statistics include:
permittee breakdown by country and US state
The South Rim Backcountry Information Center is open daily from 8 am to noon and 1-5 pm Mountain Standard Time.
Backcountry Information Center staff answer information telephone inquiries at 928-638-7875 between 8 am and 5 pm Monday through Friday, except on federal holidays. The North Rim Backcountry office is currently closed.
(2mb PDF file): The information in this newspaper can assist you in obtaining a backcountry use permit.
HIKE SMART: Your Essential Guide to Hiking in Grand Canyon video
. Explore how to have a safe and unforgettable adventure here in Grand Canyon, including tips from our experts on preparedness, hydration, and hiking in the heat.
Hiking Grand Canyon, Prepare for Backpacking
. This video is designed to help you plan for and enjoy your hike into the canyon's harsh, yet fragile, environment.
All Grand Canyon backcountry users are asked to follow Leave No Trace principles. The goal is to have minimum human impact on the canyon as a result of your trip.
Additional backcountry info can be found on the following webpages.