We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
Mammals - Yellowstone National Park (U.S. National Park Service)
website belongs to an official government
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
more information on current conditions...
Yellowstone is home to the largest concentration of mammals in the lower 48 states. In addition to having a diversity of small animals, Yellowstone is notable for its predator–prey complex of large mammals, including eight ungulate species (bighorn sheep, bison, elk, moose, mountain goats, mule deer, pronghorn, and white-tailed deer) and seven large predators (black bears, Canada lynx, coyotes, grizzly bears, mountain lions, wolverines, and wolves).
The National Park Service’s goal is to maintain the ecological processes that sustain these mammals and their habitats while monitoring the changes taking place in their populations. Seasonal or migratory movements take many species across the park boundary where they are subject to different management policies and uses of land by humans.
Understanding the links between climate change and these drivers will be critical to informing the ecology and
67 different mammals live here, including many small mammals.
As of 2024, an estimated 1,030 grizzly bears live in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem.
Gray wolves were restored in 1995. As of January 2025, at least 108 live primarily in the park.
Wolverine and lynx, which require large expanses of undisturbed habitat, live here.
Seven native ungulate species—elk, mule deer, bison, moose, bighorn sheep, pronghorn, and white-tailed deer—live here.
Nonnative mountain goats have colonized northern portions of the park.
As of August 2024, there were approximately 5,400 bison.
Carnivores all started out as meat-eaters, but many have evolved to be omnivores (consumers of plants and animals). Over a dozen carnivores can be found within the park.
Two species of bears inhabit Yellowstone: grizzly and black bears.
Lynx are one of three cat species found in Yellowstone.
Largest of the cat species in Yellowstone.
Coyotes are abundant throughout the park.
Gray wolves, restored in 1995, freely roam the park.
Long-tailed weasels change color based on the season.
Member of the weasel family that lives in woodlands.
Smallest of the three canid species found in the park.
The most aquatic of the weasels in the park.
A mid-size carnivore in the weasel family.
Ungulates are hooved herbivores (plant-eaters), and there are two types: even-toed and odd-toed. All of the native ungulates found in Yellowstone are even-toed, while there is one odd-toed ungulate you may see in the park: horses.
Yellowstone bison exhibit behavior like their ancient ancestors.
Most bighorn sheep in Yellowstone are migratory.
Elk are the most abundant large mammal found in Yellowstone.
Moose are the largest members of the deer family in Yellowstone.
Mountain goats are considered non-native species.
Also called blacktail deer, they are an exclusively western species.
The surviving member of a group of animals that evolved in North America during the past 20 million years.
A common deer on the East Coast, they are scarcely seen in Yellowstone.
Rodents are a vital part of the ecosystems in Yellowstone, serving as a major food source for many of the park's predators. All rodents have a pair of incisors in their upper and lower jaws with a large gap between the incisors and the molars. The incisors continue to grow throughout their lives, so they continually wear them down through chewing.
Beaver affects habitat structure and dynamics through the damming and diverting of streams.
Found throughout Yellowstone, they are often mistaken as chipmunks.
Least chipmunks are commonly seen around the park.
Perhaps the most important prey species in the park.
Very active rodents that dig burrows in grassy areas.
Rodents that hibernate for eight months and are seen climbing around rocks.
Hares, Rabbits, and Pika (Order Lagomorpha)
These mammals are similar to rodents, except that they only eat plants and have four incisors in their upper jaws.
An indicator species for detecting ecological effects of climate change.
Their coats change color with the seasons.
The only mammals that can fly, there are 13 species that call the park home.
Bats are the only mammals capable of sustained, flapping flight. Yellowstone has 13 species of bats in the park.
. To search for additional information, visit the
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
Hiking - Yellowstone National Park (U.S. National Park Service)
website belongs to an official government
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
more information on current conditions...
Yellowstone National Park is one of America's premier wilderness areas. The park encompasses more than 2.2 million acres, has more than 1,100 miles (1,770 km) of hiking trails, and is primarily managed as wilderness.
When planning a hike, remember that many of Yellowstone’s trails are more than 7,000 feet above sea level. Most areas retain snow until late May or early June, and some (especially mountain passes) are snow-covered until late July. Also, many routes require fording rivers that can be 25 feet wide, 3 to 6 feet deep, extremely cold, and swiftly running during our late spring runoff. It’s hard to tell from a map whether a stream will be a raging torrent or merely a swollen creek. Check our
for the most up-to-date information on park trails.
Review the map to see where different hikes are located, or select an area to see what hike descriptions are available.
The map below does not show the current status and conditions of Yellowstone trails. Check our
or ask locally for the most up-to-date information on park trails.
Hike around the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone River to see mountains and canyons.
Hikes in this area provide views of Yellowstone Lake and the surrounding mountains.
Hikes in the Madison area meander through conifer forest.
The trails around Mammoth Hot Springs have a full range of difficultly and environments to explore.
Hydrothermal features abound in the Upper Geyser Basin, and many trails in the area lead to some quieter views.
Explore valleys, mountains, and petrified forests in the northeast part of the park.
Hikes in the south part of the park reward hikers with spectacular lake views.
Check our Backcountry Situation Report beforehand for the most updated backcountry conditions.
Stay safe in Yellowstone’s backcountry! Carry bear spray, store food properly, check weather, and be prepared for changing conditions.
Visitor Centers - Yellowstone National Park (U.S. National Park Service)
website belongs to an official government
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
more information on current conditions...
Old Faithful Visitor Education Center in summer
Old Faithful Visitor Education Center in winter
A look at the Old Faithful Visitor Education Center in the summer (left) and in the winter (right).
Ten visitor centers and information stations are found throughout the park. Step inside one to talk with a ranger, discover more about the park's resources through exhibits and interpretive offerings, or get oriented to the park.
Learn about wildlife and get park information at this visitor center located near the North Entrance.
See, hear, and learn how the Yellowstone volcano, its geysers and hot springs, and geologic history shape the area's ecosystems.
Discover the opportunities available in the Lake area by stopping by this historic visitor center.
Coming in from the South Entrance? Stop by this visitor center for park information and to learn about fire ecology.
Stop by the Madison Information Station for park information, a ranger program, or to enjoy views of the Madison River.
Discover the history of the national park ranger.
Start here to begin your exploration of the Norris Geyser Basin.
Stop by the Old Faithful Visitor Education Center to explore exhibits, watch movies, and learn about the park's hydrothermal treasures.
Stop by this small information station at the West Thumb Geyser Basin for information or a ranger program.
Stop by this visitor information center to get information about the park and surrounding area before heading into the park.
Learn more about the amazing variety of destinations in Yellowstone.
Yellowstone is seasonal. Plan your visit by learning about current conditions, seasons, road conditions, services, activities, and more.
Join a park ranger to further your understanding about this special place.
Visitor Centers and Warming Huts in Winter
During the winter months, many park facilities are closed. Here are the visitor centers and warming huts that are open during the winter season. Check the
for open and close dates, as well as descriptions of available services.
Lobby and bathrooms open as a warming hut.
West Yellowstone Visitor Information Center:
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and