Animals - Zion National Park (U.S. National Park Service)
website belongs to an official government
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
more information on current conditions...
Sitting at the convergence of the Colorado Plateau, Great Basin, Basin and Range, and Mojave Desert physio-geographic zones, animal life in Zion National Park is vast and varied.
With so many varying heights and resultant microclimates and habitats, it is no surprise that Zion is home to over 78 species of mammals, 291 species of birds, 37 species of reptiles and amphibians, and 8 species of fish. Masters in the art of desert heat evasion, many animals take to burrows or dens in the heat of the day, or choose to be nocturnal and use the nighttime to emerge upon the landscape in cooler temperatures.
Remember to never feed, approach, or touch wildlife in Zion. Learn more about what to do if you
From canids to cougars to chipmunks, over 70 species of mammals thrive in Zion.
From condors to canyon wrens, Zion has over 250 species of birds.
There are eight species of fish found in Zion, three of which are only found in the Virgin River.
Despite the heat and dry conditions, over 30 species of amphibians call Zion home.
Small but important, insects are a vital part of Zion's ecosystem.
Scientists in Zion collect, interpret, and manage data to help manage and protect the park's resources.
Occurrence values are defined below. One or more
may be associated with each Occurrence value.
Species occurs in park; current, reliable evidence available.
High confidence species occurs in park but current, verified evidence needed.
Species is attributed to park but evidence is weak or absent.
Species is known to occur in areas near to or contiguous with park boundaries.
Species was reported to occur within the park, but current evidence indicates the report was based on misidentification, a taxonomic concept no longer accepted, or other similar problem of error or interpretation.
Species' historical occurrence in park is documented. Assigned based on judgment as opposed to determination based on age of the most recent evidence.
May be seen daily, in suitable habitat and season, and counted in relatively large numbers.
Large number of individuals; wide ecological amplitude or occurring in habitats covering a large portion of the park.
May be seen daily, in suitable habitat and season, but not in large numbers.
Large numbers of individuals predictably occurring in commonly encountered habitats but not those covering a large portion of the park.
Likely to be seen monthly in appropriate habitat and season. May be locally common.
Few to moderate numbers of individuals; occurring either sporadically in commonly encountered habitats or in uncommon habitats.
Present, but usually seen only a few times each year.
Few individuals, usually restricted to small areas of rare habitat.
Occurs in the park at least once every few years, varying in numbers, but not necessarily every year.
Abundance variable from year to year (e.g., desert plants).
Species naturally occurs in park or region.
Species occurs on park lands as a result of deliberate or accidental human activities.
Nativeness status is unknown or ambiguous.
contains only those species that are designated as "present" or "probably present" in the park.
includes all the checklist species in addition to species that are unconfirmed, historically detected, or incorrectly reported as being found in the park. The full list also contains species that are "in review" because their status in the park hasn't been fully determined. Additional details about the status of each species is included in the full list.
The checklist will almost always contain fewer species than the full list.
for more comprehensive information and advanced search capability. Have a suggestion or comment on this list?
If you have questions, please email zion_park_information@nps.gov.
Listen to recorded information by calling anytime 24 hours a day.
Rangers answer phone calls from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. MT, but a ranger may not answer if they are already speaking with someone else.
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and
We're sorry, we can't find the page you're looking for. The site
administrator may have removed it, changed its location, or made
If you typed the URL directly, check your spelling and